*[Namo tassa] bhagavato arahato sammā-sambuddhassa.* **(three times)**
Homage to the Blessed One, the Worthy One, the Rightly Self-awakened One.

*Ukāsa. Dvārattayena kataṁ,*  
*sabbaṁ apāradhaṁ khamatu no (me) bhante.*  
We (I) ask your leave. We (I) ask you to forgive us (me) for whatever wrong we (I) have done with the three doors (of body, speech, & mind).

*Vandāmi bhante cetiyaṁ, sabbaṁ sabbattha ṭhāne,*
*supatiṭṭhitaṁ sārīraṅka-dhātuṁ, mahā-bodhiṁ buddha-rūpaṁ, sakkāratthaṁ.*
I revere every stupa established in every place, every relic of the Buddha’s body, every Great Bodhi tree, every Buddha image that is an object of veneration

*Ahaṁ vandāmi dhātuyo. Ahaṁ vandāmi sabbaso,*  
*Iccetaṁ ratanattayaṁ, ahaṁ vandāmi sabbadā.*  
I revere the relics. I revere them everywhere. I always revere the Triple Gem.

*Buddha-pūjā mahā-tejavanto, Dhamma-pūjā mahappañño,*  
*Saṅgha-pūjā mahā-bhogāvaho.*
Homage to the Buddha brings great majesty; homage to the Dhamma, great discernment; homage to the Saṅgha, great wealth.

*Buddhaṁ Dhammaṁ Saṅghaṁ,*
*jīvitaṁ yāva-nibbānaṁ saraṇaṁ gacchāmi.*  
I go to the Buddha, Dhamma, & Saṅgha as my life & refuge until reaching unbinding.

*Parisuddho ahaṁ bhante, parisuddhoti maṁ,*  
*Buddho Dhammo Saṅgho dhāretu.*
I am morally pure. May the Buddha, Dhamma, & Saṅgha recognize me as morally pure.

*Sabbe sattā sadā hontu     Averā sukha-jīvino.*  
May all living beings always live happily, free from animosity.

*Kataṁ puñña-phalaṁ mayhaṁ,*  
*Sabbe bhāgī bhavantu te.*  
May all share in the blessings springing from the good I have done.

**(BOW DOWN THREE TIMES)**
