The chant for each of the remaining properties is identical with the chant for the wind property, i.e., (1) the passage on the Buddha’s virtues, (2) the passage on the Dhamma’s virtues, (3) the passage on the Saṅgha’s virtues, followed by the passage beginning, ‘Dhātu-parisuddhānubhāvena….’ Only the name of the property is changed:

2. Fire property:
*Tejo ca buddha-guṇaṁ...*  
*Tejo ca dhammetaṁ...*  
*Tejo ca saṅghānaṁ...*  

3. Water property:
*Āpo ca buddha-guṇaṁ...*  
*Āpo ca dhammetaṁ...*  
*Āpo ca saṅghānaṁ...*  

4. Earth property:
*Paṭhavī ca buddha-guṇaṁ...*  
*Paṭhavī ca dhammetaṁ...*  
*Paṭhavī ca saṅghānaṁ...*  

5. Space property:
*Ākāsā ca buddha-guṇaṁ...*  
*Ākāsā ca dhammetaṁ...*  
*Ākāsā ca saṅghānaṁ...*  

6. Consciousness property:
*Viññāṇañca buddha-guṇaṁ...*
*Viññāṇañca dhammetaṁ...*
*Viññāṇañca saṅghānaṁ...*

Once you have memorized section 1, the remaining sections will be no problem, because they are virtually the same, differing only in the name of the property.

These six properties exist within each of us, so when you repeat the chant you should also think about the property you are chanting about: Wind—feelings of movement, such as the in-and-out breath; Fire—feelings of warmth; Water—liquid or cool feelings; Earth—feelings of heaviness or solidity; Space—feelings of emptiness; Consciousness—awareness of objects. If you think about these properties while you chant, the chant will be very beneficial.

The same chant can be used for the five aggregates, the twelve sense media, and the 32 parts of the body. The method of chanting is the same as with the six properties, simply substituting the names of the various aggregates, sense media, and parts of the body, as follows:

- The Five Aggregates
1. *Rūpañca*
Form

2. *Vedanā ca*
Feeling

3. *Saññā ca*
Perception

4. *Saṅkhārā ca*
Fabrications

5. *Viññāṇañca*
Consciousness of the six senses

- The Twelve Sense Media top of chant
1. *Cakkhu ca*
Eyes

2. *Sotañca*
Ears

3. *Ghānañca*
Nose

4. *Jivhā ca*
Tongue

5. *Kāyo ca*
Body

6. *Mano ca*
Mind

7. *Rūpañca*
Forms

8. *Saddo ca*
Sounds

9. *Gandho ca*
Aromas

10. *Raso ca*
Flavors

11. *Poṭṭhabbā ca*
Tactile sensations

12. *Dhammārammaṇañca*
Ideas

- The 32 Parts of the Body top of chant
1. *Kesā ca*
Hair of the head

2. *Lomā ca*
Hair of the body

3. *Nakhā ca*
Nails

4. *Dantā ca*
Teeth

5. *Taco ca*
Skin

6. *Maṁsañca*
Flesh

7. *Nhārū ca*
Tendons

8. *Aṭṭhī ca*
Bones

9. *Aṭṭhimiñjañca*
Bone marrow

10. *Vakkañca*
Spleen

11. *Hadayañca*
Heart

12. *Yakanañca*
Liver

13. *Kilomakañca*
Membranes

14. *Pihakañca*
Kidneys

15. *Papphāsañca*
Lungs

16. *Antañca*
Large intestines

17. *Antaguṇañca*
Small intestines

18. *Udariyañca*
Gorge

19. *Karīsañca*
Feces

20. *Matthaluṅgañca*
Brain

21. *Pittañca*
Gall

22. *Semhañca*
Phlegm

23. *Pubbo ca*
Lymph

24. *Lohitañca*
Blood

25. *Sedo ca*
Sweat

26. *Medo ca*
Fat

27. *Assu ca*
Tears

28. *Vasā ca*
Oil

29. *Kheḷo ca*
Saliva

30. *Siṅghāṇikā ca*
Mucus

31. *Lasikā ca*
Oil in the joints

32. *Muttañca*
Urine
